{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang3081{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Morale/Happyness\line - safety\line - enought food\line - wealth\par
\b Morale adjusted by\b0\line + enought food\line + enought housing\line\line - lack of food\line - lack of housing\line - civilization tier\line\line\b Morale causes\b0\line + population growth\line - population growth\line -- rebellions\par
\b Delivery points for resources\line\b0 Main (all resources)\line Granary (all foods)\line Storage Yard (stone, wood)\line\b\line Paleolithic Age\line\b0\i This Age eases the Player into the game. The player needs to do some basic scouting of the surrounding areas for resources to harvest,, and to plan his or her strategy thereafter. The initial minute is somewhat hectic since the Player will want to start harvesting resouces and set up a good location as soon as possible, but there's not much else going on yet, and the pace settles quickly after setting up a Fireplace. The player also gets some down-time when waiting for advancement to the Mesolithic Age, which gives time to further scout and reflect on surrounding areas. This is also a good phase to do some chatting with other players, wishing opponents good luck, or chat with allies about strategy.\b\i0\line\b0\line Population never grows to more than 8. (fireplace housing)\line Population requires enought food for sufficient morale and population growth.\line Morale boost by consuming different food sources.\line Start with Tribe (free movement) that can place Fireplace.\line Villager delivers all resources to Fireplace.\line\line Fireplace can train Villager and Shaman.\line\line Villager can construct Marketplace, Resource Pit and Megalith.\line\line Resource Pit is a drop site for resources.\line\line Marketplace lets player trade obsidian/flint for food or wood, or the other way around. Trading gives + 1 boost to prosperity.\line\line Megaliths lets up to two Shamans worship, adding + 1 prosperity boost per Shaman.\line\line Fireplace can upgrade to Base Camp to advance civilization to Mesolithic Age.\line This requires food.\b\par
Mesolithic Age\line\b0\i Hopefully, by the time Player reaches this age, the player has a plan of action to execute based on surrounding locations, because this Age eases the Player into doing some serious city-building actions. He can start placing military unit production buildings, build defencive buildings, research some basic technologies to help Villagers harvest resources more efficiently, produce basic military units, and build Megaliths to boost morale. Villagers can also harvest resources further away from the Civilization Center, thanks to Storage Pits, which means early scouting is vital.\b\i0\line\line\b0 !Curcular mudbrick houses.\line\b\line\b0 Housing means population can grow to > 8.\b\line\b0 Villager delivers all resources to Storage Pit or Civilization Center.\line\line Villager can construct ...\line Exotic Resource Camp (requires Marketplace): build close exotic resource for + prosperity \line Storage Pit: resource delivery point.\line House: increase population cap.\line Archery Hut: Archer.\line Warrior Hut:  Axe Man Warrior.\line Watch Tower: place Archer for visibility and defence.\line Palisade: wall up camp.\line Megalith: big stone structure (+ morale).\par
Storage Pit technologies: Microliths (+ hunting, + fishing), Weaving (+ Villager HP, + gathering)\line\line Base Camp can upgrade to Settlement to advance civilization to Neolithic Age.\line Requires food and wood.\line\line\b Neolithic Age\line\b0\i Players will start to deplete their surrounding areas of huntable animals, so in order to sustain and grow their population, they will have to start their transition to agriculture and domestication. The variety of military units increases. Players will have to consider morale, since desease will decrease the morale and prevent population growth.\b\i0\line\b0\line Desease (-.1 morale per 1 population)\line\line Storage Pit technologies: Polished Stone Axe (+ woodworking)\line Settlement technologies: Pottery (??), Animal Domestication (+ farming), Priestmanship (train specialist Priest)\line\line Granary: farmed food delivery.\line Barracks: train Spear Man (+ attack against buildings, + attack against Chariot, + attack against Scout), Axe Man Warrior (+ defense vs. ranged attack)\line Archery Range: train Slinger (+ move speed,  + range, - attack speed), Improved Archer (+ attack)\line Farm: produce food.\line Marketplace: trade stone or wood, for food\line\line Settlement can upgrade to Village Center to advance civilization to Calcholitic Age.\line Requires food and stone.\line\line\b Calcholithic Age\line\b0 ?? (-1 morale)\line Unique buildings for faction.\b\line\b0\line Village Center: Saw (+ wood cutting), Writing (+ prosperity), Wheel (villagers can carry more resources, \lang3081 + trading\lang9 ), Artisanship (build Masonry)\line\line Stable: Scout (fast, high HP).\line Masonry: train Mason (200% faster construction times).\line\lang3081 Smelter: Copper Scale Armor (+ defense for Axe Man and Spear Man), Copper Shield (+ defence against ranged units for Axe Man Warrior and Spearman), \lang9\line Wall: upgrade to Village Wall (place archers on walls, + HP).\line Watch Tower: upgrade to Guard Tower (+ HP, + visibility).\line King: + morale, powerful unit, unit passive ability depending on faction, - morale when killed (until a new King is trained)\line Monument: + morale\line Marketplace: can trade exotic goods (+ morale)\line\line Egypt: Copper Head Spearman (replaces Spearman, spear with a copper spearhead and a large wooden shield covered by leather hides, + move speed).\line\line Village Center can upgrade to X to advance civilization to Bronze Age.\line Requires massive amounts of food and a fair amount of copper.\line\line\b Early Bronze Age\line\b0 ?? (-1 morale)\line\line X technologies: Chariot (+ trading, King becomes mounted)\line\b\line\b0 Granary: Plought (+ farming)\line Smelter: Bronze Axe (+ woodworking), Bronze Weaponry (+ attack for Warrior and Spear Man), Bronze Scale Armor (+ defense for Warrior and Spear Man), Bronze Shield (+ defence against ranged units for Warrior units), Bronze Axe (+ wood working), Bronze Weaponry (+ attack for Warrior and Spear Man)\line Defence: City Wall (+ HP), Improved Guard Tower (+ HP, + visiblity)\b\line\b0\line Myceneans: Heavy Infantry (replaces Axe Man, - move speed, ++ hp)\line Egypt: Nubian Archer (+ attack damage)\line\line Temple can upgrade to Palace to advance civilization to Bronze Age.\line Requires massive amounts of food and a fair amount of bronze.\line\line\b Bronze Age\line\b0 ?? (-1 morale)\b\line\b0\line Palace: Elite Unit (unique per civilization), Elite Technology (unique per civilization)\line Granary: Irrigation (+ farming)\line Stable: Chariot (elite unit)\line Masonry: Architects (construct Wonder, + buildings HP)\line\line Myceneans: Hoplite (+++ hp), \line Hitties: Hittie Chariot: (+ hp)\line Assyrians: Military Logistics (- military units food consumption)\line Babylonians: Babylonian law (+ morale)\line Minoans: NA.\line\line Construct Wonder to win Wonder victory. Required massive amount of stone and food.\par
\b Minoans \b0 + wood cutting, + fishing, + morale from Paleolithic Age\line\b Egyptians \b0 free irrigation technology when reaching Calcholithic Age, Nubian Archer, Copper Head Spearman\line\b Hitties \b0 Hittie Chariot,??\line\b Assyrians\b0  Military Logistics, ??\line\b Babylon \b0 Irrigation technology twice as efficient, Babylonian law (+ morale), + wall HP\line\b Myceneans \b0 Heavy infantry, Hoplite, ??\line\line\b Wonder Victory\line\b0 Babylonia: Ziggurat of Ur\line Egypt: Great Pyramid of Giza\line Minoan: Palace of Knossos (can upgrade Palace directly instead of constructing a new building, train or research anything at Palace while upgrading, cheaper than other Wonders)\line Hitties: NA.\line Mycenan: NA.\line Assyria: NA.\par
\b Siege Warfare\line\b0 Ladders, Axe Men +1 against gates, Spear Men +1 against buildings.\b\line\line ?? Missing ??\line\b0 Marketplace and trading\line Temple building, Priest unit, religion\line Morale stat consequences\line Some kind of Shaman or Healer for early ages\line Scribe unit or technology\par
}
 